Hello and welcome to the podcast on
taking screenshots on the Macintosh.
Nicely, Macintosh has a very simple tool
built in.
We go into Macintosh hard drives, we go to
Applications, and then we search down for
Preview.
P, p, p Preview, Preview right here.
So, Preview, and I'll close this now.
So, we've got Preview.
Preview's the application that that was
originally built to view PDFs on
the Macintosh, but it also has a whole
series of screen capture capabilities.
And I like to keep Preview in my dock all
the time, so I
come down here on the Preview icon And,
oh, it's already in my dock.
If I said remove from dock.
And then I would say keep in dock.
It was already there.
As soon as I start Preview, I always keep
it in the dock.
I put all the things I need to use all the
time in the dock.
And so let's take a screenshot.
I'll just sort of start a jEdit program.
And I'll say, Take me as a screenshot,
whatever.
Doesn't matter.
Just this is the window that I want to
take a picture of, this window right here.
So I go to Preview and I say File, this
is in the most logical place.
You can either grab a rectangular
selection, which you'll be allowed to
draw with your cursor, or a window, or the
whole screen when timed.
90% of the time what you really want to
do is take a window.
You can say, grab window, it, it tells,
you,
oh, you know you can grab, go over
different windows.
I can click here, I can click there.
And click there.
And I just want to capture this window.
So, click.
I go like that.
Now here's a little weird.
This is now an image, okay?
And so you can't click on this
stuff.
Okay?
That's that.
So what you need to do, I'm going to close
the original real window now, this is my
jEdit.
I'm going to Cmd+Q to get rid of the
And I do not want to save that file.
So now I'm in Preview.
See, I'm in Preview here.
And so, I've got this as, as an image.
Now the one thing it does, is it always
saves it to your desktop.
So which gets to be sort of painful as a,
after a while.
And gives them them long names called
snapshot that has
the date and stores it in this format
called .tiff.
So I prefer to switch it to a, you know,
non-Apple format.
So I want to do a Save As, and I'm
going to save this, save this as a .jpeg.
And I'd give it a, a better name, called
First Image.
And it'll be a .jpeg.
And I'm going to store it right on my
desktop.
So now here we have First Image, okay.
And I can click on that and take a look at
it.
I'll close this.
Click on it.
Interestingly, it just comes back up in
Preview.
So, that's pretty much it.
This would be the file that you would
upload, if your job was to do this.
I'll show you a couple other tricks that I
like to make my images a little bit
better.
Now, Preview has a simple tool for
cropping.
And the way you crop something is you say,
you draw a rectangle here
on the image, and then you say Tools, Crop.
And I've gotten rid of all the rest of
that image except that which I want.
And I'll say save this as It's a .jpeg,
and I wan't to save it as .jepg.
Tiny.
I'll save it as tiny.
And so I now have two images.
I got that first image.
And I got this tiny image.
And there it is.
I'll use Cmd+W to quickly close it.
I really like, I mean Apple+W to quickly
close it.
And so the one thing is, you just, after a
while, your
snapshots fill up on your desk, and so
just keep cleaning them off.
And if you were uploading to hand in a
screenshot
or whatever, this would be the file that
you upload.
So that's pretty much all there is.
Use the preview command.
To take screenshots with the grab and
typically it's grab window.
Okay? Thanks.